                 Generic Satellite Ephemeris Files
                     C. Acton    December 11, 2013
                  
This folder contains SPICE format (SPK) versions of the most recent natural body satellite 
ephemeris files produced by JPL's Solar System Dynamics Group. 

The naming schema for these files is usually nnnxxx.bsp, where:

  nnn is the first three letters of the planet's name  (mar, jup, sat, ura, nep, plu)
  xxx is a unique number, not really of any value to SPICE users
  
In some cases there is additional information inlcuded in the file name, such as:

  "rocks"  means the ephemeris is based on an orbital theory and not on an integration
  "l"  meaning this is a longer version of another file having the same name

For each planetary system having satellites (Mars through Pluto) there may be one or several files. 
When there is more than one file for a planet, each file contains ephemeris data for a unique set 
of satellites--there is no duplication of satellites across files.

Each satellite SPK provides the state (position and velocity) of the named satellites relative
to the barycenter of that planetary system.

Each satellite ephemeris SPK file also contains the ephemeris for the central planet, what is often
referred to as the location of the planet mass center. In this sense each planet is treated as as
a satellite of its own barycenter, just as for the "real" satellites.  As an example, the Mars
satellite ephemeris file (name style is marxxx.bsp) contains ephemeris data for Phobos (ID = 401),
Deimos (ID = 402) and Mars' mass center (ID = 499). Also included are the locations of the
earth barycenter (ID = 3), earth itself (ID = 399) and the sun (ID = 10).

NAIF's SPK tutorial provides more information about barycenters, and about how to use (read)
SPK files.  That tuorial is found here: 
    
    http://naif.jpl.nasa.gov/naif/tutorials.html 

and is named 19_spk.

Each of these SPKs contains some meta-data in the comment area. Typically the meta-data are those
provided by the person who generated the source file from which the SPK was made. (The Solar
System Dynamics Group uses a local, internal format for their ephemeris files.) You may view those
meta-data by reading the comment area, using the "commnt" utility available in each Toolkit.
Those same comments are often available in this folder, in files having a "cmt" extension.

The file named "aa_summaries" provides a convenient summary of the contents (which satellites
are included) and time coverage for every SPK file available in this folder.

Older versions of satellite SPK files are found one level down, in the "a_old_version" folder.

Be aware of one oddity: the ephemeris for the earth's moon is *NOT* available in a file found in
this folder.  Instead, the lunar ephemeris is included in each SPICE planetary
ephemeris (name style dexxx), found in the adjacent planets folder (../planets).

Occasionally (so far only for Mars) NAIF has access to a satellite ephemeris in SPK format that
was produced by another agency. Such files are not provided under this "generic_kernels"
collection; rather they are provided only with the operational kernels asociated with the
foreign flight project that produced the ephemeris. The only current examples are Phobos/Deimos
ephemeris SPKs produced under the auspices of the Mars Express (MEX) project.



